---
published: false
title: Recurse Center, Day negative 3
layout: post
---
Or is it Day -2? I guess that depends on whether I think of my first day at the RC as being Day 0 or Day 1. Obviously the former is more CS-y, but my instinct is to stick with the vernacular convention and call it Day 1... and I guess I could give the post-hoc mathematical justification that the numbering is retrospective/trailing, i.e., what I label as "Day 1" covers the day starting from time `t = 0 days` to time `t = 1 day.`

*BLAH BLAH BLAH. ANYWAY*, in the Gregorian Calendar, today is Thursday, December 31st–just a few days before I start the Winter 2 batch at the Recurse Center! One of my goals for my time at RC is to keep a daily blog, for the completely selfish reason that I want to deliberately reflect on what I'm doing and learning there. If I force myself to write daily (to at least write *something*, regardless of whether I *feel* like doing so), and if I do so in a way that's semi-public, then maybe I'll be better at holding myself to at least *some* standard of accountability. (Not, in general, my strongest suit!)

Also I really like to write. Remember the time I got so into teaching calculus that I [accidentally wrote most of a textbook](http://www.andrusia.com/math)? So this is a fun excuse to force me to write. (And to FINISH what I start writing, which doesn't happen often enough!)

Also note that since I'm writing this primarily for MYSELF (selfish, selfish), this is probably going to be really rambly and overly detailed. I know my audience!

Okay! 

Here are a couple of things on my mind as I prepare for spending three months at the RC:
--------

1. *I need a place to live in New York.* This is kind of important. I've done basically nothing as far as searching goes (other than posting on the RC forums and signing up for [the Listings Project](https://www.listingsproject.com/). For some unknown reason finding housing has always given me huge amounts of anxiety, which in this case has (unhelpfully) sort of paralyzed me. Which I'm not trying to use as an excuse, but, well... 

    G. (an RC alumnus!) has repeatedly offered up his parents' house in Brooklyn as a place to stay until I find a longer-term place. Maybe I should take him up on that? I hate bothering people and I'm always terrified that I'm imposing as a houseguest. A. suggested I try to house-sit for someone (and gave me some website), and K. said  "Why don't you try that CouchSurfing website?", but I always think that these sorts of things have way more demand than supply. Who doesn't want free housing? And it's the SEARCH for housing that stresses me out. So I want to minimize my search costs. I don't really care about where I live–I have basically zero material needs beyond a roof, hot water, electricity, and temperatures consistently above 50 degrees.

    All of which is to say that I'm happy to spend money for housing. Well, I'm never HAPPY to spend money on anything, but I've grudgingly committed myself to doing so. I will find a place to live! I will pay money for it! I will enjoy it! My landlord will enjoy my money! It will be a successful business transaction that leaves all parties better off!

    E. told me about how easy it was to find an apartment when he started grad school at NYU in 2010: he went down to New York for the weekend, stayed at a friend's place, looked at two apartments, liked the second one, went to a bank, got out $3K in cash (first, last, security), and poof! He had a one-bedroom apartment in Spanish Harlem. 

    I lived by myself for the first nine months out of college. It sucked! I was so lonely! I came home from work and... THERE WAS NO ONE TO TALK TO. Thankfully, it's not only more fun to have roommates, it's cheaper!

    Side note: "I thought about offering you my parents' [halfway fixed-up rental] place in Bed-Stuy," A. said, "but then I realized I'd probably be doing you a favor by NOT forcing you to interact with them." Much appreciated! 

2. *I need a computer.* I mean, I have a computer, but I need a laptop. For the last 5.5 years my only computer has been my beloved 24" iMac, which (to my amazement) still works fantastically (though I do want to bump the RAM up from 4GB to 8GB). In my ~25 years of using computers, I've never used a single machine this long (let alone without any frustration!). But the iMac is also completely non-portable. To some extent this is a feature (I really need to work to quench my technology addiction), but it can also be really inconvenient. Once I brought it to New York, and I carried it on the subway (in its original box) from Astoria to P.'s apartment in Morningside Heights. The next morning I did the reverse trip. As a one-time gimmick it was amusing, but as a regular occurrence, ARGH. For the RC I really need a laptop. 

    I have a ~2007 MacBook that I use as a typewriter/email-checker when traveling, but it really can't do much more than that. (I found it in my parents' house, and successfully saved/resuscitated it from the pile of three decades of dead computers in the basement!) I can probably read and do some basic coding on it for a few days until I get a proper laptop, though. (I'm typing on it right now!) 

    But giant JavaScripty webpages make it miserable. I guess would make it tough to Google code problems. I can't run Chrome at all, and Safari effectively can't display more than one or two tabs at a time. It only has a gigabyte of RAM, which seems to be the limiting factor. Maybe there's a super lightweight browser I can find that doesn't require hundreds of megabytes per tab? Does that exist? Or has that gone the way of the `<blink>` tag?)

    I wonder if I can install the Haskell Platform onto that MacBook (see below). I should try that tonight once I finish writing this. Oooh, I know what could be the subject of my Day -2 post!

    Longer-term, I guess I need to shell out for a new MacBook. I should have taken care of this two weeks ago. Had I made it to the Cornell Store before they closed for winter break, I could have gotten Apple's education discount (which is usually several hundred $$$s). (It still exists, right?) I could still have my father make the purchase in order to get the discount, but maybe that would take a while. In middle school and high school I preferred to buy refurbished computers, because the economics were the same with buying used cars (half the price and 85% of the value!)(what up, beloved green first-generation-form-factor iMac!). Is that still the case? I haven't bought a refurbished computer since 2004. Maybe the depreciation/value efficient frontier is different for laptops because of batteries (they wear out, and in modern computers they're unreplaceable)?

    Alternatively, what if I bought like a ThinkPad or something and installed Ubuntu on it? I have no particular desire to run Linux, and actually have something of a repulsion to the sys-admin'ing that running Linux might entail. Analogy: I don't want to spend my time thinking about fine-tuning my fuel-injection; I want to spend my time taking an awesome road-trip out west!

    Hmm. Really I just need to make some sort of decision and run with it.


How am I going to spend my time at the Recurse Center?
-------

Housing and which particular computer I have are secondary. (So why did I list them first here? Maybe because they're foundational but not fundamental? Does that make sense?) ANYWAY. The IMPORTANT thing to think about is how to use my three months at the Recurse Center in the most productive way possible. Here are a couple of disjointed thoughts:

1. In my application, I said I wanted to work on two things:
  a. I want to learn a functional language. (Haskell, I guess?) Maybe this is a bit of a cliché, but having heard friends preach the gospel of functional programming for years and years, and having felt strangle tingles every time I push my JavaScript (or even Python) in that direction, I want to have an opportunity/excuse/motivation to go ALL IN. I want to know what it's like to FEEL and LIVE and THINK in a more functional world! It doesn't have to be Haskell necessarily, but one of the forces-you-to-be-really-functional languages. Maybe Clojure? Another lisp? I'm open to suggestions.
  b. Second is a little further away from programming (though it's arguably "data science"). There's this really cool emerging field of *applied topology*. Over the last few years, mathematicians have realized that the (BEAUTIFUL, PURE) field of topology actually has a lot of really useful concrete applications. Topology is, more or less, the study of shapes and space in the abstract, without any concept of measurement or distance, and so it's got a lot of tools that, as it turns out, are fantastic for understanding the "shape" of complex, high-dimensional data. I really loved taking algebraic topology years ago, and I've been so excited every time I hear about applied topology. 
      I've made a handful of stabs at reading about it, but the thing with serious math is that it's hard to just dabble in it... it requires focused, sustained concentration and effort. Actually this is probably true of most anything worthwhile; it's just that math, like running, requires a pretty high level of minimum effort. As opposed to, e.g., reading novels, which you can do pretty superficially and still get *something* out of it. (No one runs a 20 minute mile. No one can randomly open up a page of a math textbook while on the toilet and take something away.) Anyway, so that's what's so enticing about RC: it's an opportunity to actually study in a focused way!
      On the other hand, it seems sort of on the outside of what most people affiliated with the RC know about and/or are interested in (although someone else did mention applied topology on the Winter 2 introductions thread!). And it seems like the optimal way to use my time is some intersection of what *I'm* interested in, and what *other people* are interested in (since communal education is the movement of electrons between those two things, and so it depends on the electric potential. Except, um, ideally the flow is in both directions, so maybe that's not the best metaphor. Hmm.)
      Other concern: *math is hard*! Math is also scary! Math is a manic-depressive emotional roller coaster!  It's been so long since I took algebraic topology that I'd have to re-learn lots of stuff (and my C-  and my father's comment about how "well, some people just aren't math people," aren't exactly confidence-boosting, although, like, whatever, I can do it if I just work hard enough.)
      See, now that I'm phrasing it like this, I almost feel OBLIGATED to try to learn more about it, BECAUSE it's so scary. Face your fears! Confront them! 
      I wonder what's a concrete goal I could set for myself? That seems more useful than the accurate-but-vague goal of "learn about algebraic topology". Like, is there some compelling theorem that I should try to aim at understanding? Or technique? (Maybe? I still don't understand homology.)
      It's occurred to me at a couple points that maybe the best way of combining these two inchoate desires would be to a) write libraries to calculate various useful topological invariants b) in Haskell or Clojure. Hooray for synergy! Maybe that's too ambitious? But it seems like a good GOAL, regardless of how far I get, insofar as it requires a reasonable amount of understanding of each, and is a concrete, tangible end product. I mean, maybe if I want to write libraries to calculate topological invariants it'd be better to do them in a language more suited to math (?), but, who knows. I'm not even sure what sorts of concrete calculations are particularly interesting, or how I would even begin to implement them in ANY language. ??????????

2. I've been so phenomenally unproductive in my life the past several years that I feel a huge amount of internal pressure to be especially productive (i.e., to make up for lost time). Some amount of internal pressure and anxiety is probably motivating; too much can be debilitating. I need to prevent myself from getting too far towards the latter. On the other hand, I can be really lazy and really unfocused, and I need to work to prevent that, too. I want to be able to leave the Recurse Center and be able to excitedly/drunkenly tell people at parties about something concrete (and story-ifiable) I did or learned. I mean, ideally MULTIPLE things, but I'd settle for one!

3. Concrete project ideas above notwithstanding, obviously I'm open (and excited!) about the prospect of thinking about and discovering NEW things through conversation and collaboration, and flying off on whatever productive whims might materialize! But I want a BASE of things to work on and think about, because I do worry about screwing around too much and being unproductive.

4. I enjoy coding. But my feelings about technology are... more mixed. Same with the tech industry: I know lots of people who work in it, but parts of it makes me very uncomfortable. But I need to put aside those feelings for the three months I'm at RC. I've committed to my three months at RC; I should focus on THAT, and not let myself be distracted (as I often am) by big-picture and long-term stuff. (Focus on the immediate, and the bigger picture reveals itself. Probably there's some theological language I could use here. Eliot's *Quartets* are lying next to my laptop: `For us there is only the trying. The rest is not our business.` East Coker 189.)

5. I want to love the people I'm around at the Recurse Center. I'm worried that my various insecurities and mixed feelings (about myself, about the tech industry, about coding in general and the transitivity of technology) might manifest themselves as 



6. I want to write a daily blog about my work at the Recurse Center. I guess I covered this above. More generally, I want to write a BLOG. I've wanted to do this for years and years, but outside [my stupid high-school LiveJournal](http://snowyyama.livejournal.com) I've never done so. I'm too perfectionist about both writing and website design (I mean this as a criticism of myself, not a compliment).

    So basically I forced myself to set up this blog through TinyPress, on the grounds that it seemed the least unappealing of all the mainstream blogging platforms. Though really I'd rather just write my own blogging software. 

    Hmmm. Maybe I should make THAT a goal? On the one hand, that seems like too meta of a goal, and also insufficiently challenging (I mean, how hard could it be?) [0]

    TinyPress saves stuff in Markdown, and all the files are right there on my GitHub account, so it'd be easy to transfer it to something I create. Or, honestly, just writing my own page template would probably be enough. Re-writing all the backend stuff, like TinyPress's pretty web interface, seems a bit tedious. Hmm. I like this idea. I mean, what do TinyPress templates entail? Some CSS? C'mon. That's a few HOURS of work, at most, to make a blog that looks BEAUTIFUL and which design I RESPECT.



[0] In Maine in 2013, R. and I had a conversation about motivational strategies in software: with the projects we were currently working on, R. felt motivated by the thought that the projects were REALLY HARD and he had NO IDEA HOW TO DO THEM, whereas with the projects I was working on, I felt motivated/enabled by the thought that IT CAN'T BE THAT HARD. With both of our projects the reality was obviously in the middle: once R. dived into his project, it ended up being relatively straightforward compared to what he expected; mine was conceptually straightforward, but all the implementation details were nasty and took a while to sort out.

I guess what I find interesting is that in software, I've always been intimidated by the "I HAVE NO IDEA HOW TO DO THIS" style of project–even though in other parts of my life, that same intimidation has been exactly the appeal. In software the more gentler cushion of "IT CAN'T BE THAT HARD" has been reassuring to me (i.e., when I get stuck or frustrated, I've found it more useful to remember that "IT CAN'T BE THAT HARD" rather than to be negative-confirmation-bias'd by "YUP, YOU SURE HAVE NO IDEA HOW TO DO THIS.") I'm not trying to make a judgment on either style, since I really respect and trust R., but we're clearly opposites in this regard. I guess it's a personality thing. 


In closing:

I WILL KEEP WRITING UNTIL I COLLAPSE.

FEWER WORDS, MORE ACTION.
