---
published: true
title: Recurse Center, Day 1!
layout: post
---
M. and I went out and got Tibetan food late last night: hot butter tea, hot milk chai, soup dumplings, unidentified rolled-up noodles stuffed with seitan, and huge bowls of steaming thimphu thenthuk, all in a tiny restaurant hidden behind a cell phone shop in Jackson Heights. Delicious. And only $14 each!

But today! My first day at the Recurse Center! It was full of excitement! It was full of anxiety! Here are some thoughts:

## Boring but important:

1. *Housing*. Breaking my promise to myself, I did basically nothing as far as finding an apartment goes, other than to discover the [Bushwick Boarding Bazaar](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=487172681436613) Facebook group and message one of the posters in it. My anxiety about housing was/has been slightly lessened in the short term by M.'s enormous generosity/hospitality/friendliness, but I shouldn't let that induce complacency in myself (and thus take advantage of M.'s kindness). Tomorrow I should go through the most recent [Listings Project](https://www.listingsproject.com/) email and email anything that looks promising. That'll be easier to do in bulk: I'll write a brief, charming email about myself, have some wonderful colleague at the RC reassure me that it looks good, and copy-paste.

2. *Computer*. I think I can probably keep using this ArchaeoBook for a while? I mean, it does run the Haskell compiler, and as long as none of them are too JavaScripty, I can have like three or even four browser tabs open at once. (But I definitely can't have Gmail open at the same time as Zulip, RC's cool internal chat system/Slack equivalent.) In general my financial philosophy is to not spend money unless it's absolutely necessary.

    If I did want to buy a new MacBook, though, it seems I could order one with the education discount online (!) and then pick it up at the SoHo Apple Store (the same day!). Or even just go to the Apple Store with my no-expiration-date UChicago ID and pick one up. Wow, that seems so crazily easy. Not the education discount, just the *buying the computer*. I mean, I don't think I've ever bought a computer not-online (and not without months of agonizing beforehand).

## Less boring, still important:

1. In the morning today, I was smiley and charismatic and excited Andrew! In the afternoon, after I started sitting down to actually think about Haskell (I was too frightened to even think about thinking about applied topology), I was... the not-smiley and not-talkative and anxious Andrew. You drive up into Yosemite Valley, and it's beautiful, and you smell the pine trees, and you hear the Mariposa River splashing over rocks, and you're all excited to be there... and then you actually stand at the base of Half Dome, and you realize that you have to actually climb up this unbroken vertical wall of rock. [0]

    Basically I was anxious for all the reasons I expected. Learning is hard! Starting from zero is hard! It'd be easier if I came in with a more concrete project (or, better still, one that I had started) and were able to dive in directly! 

    I dicked around reading [Learn You A Haskell](http://learnyouahaskell.com/starting-out) and occasionally swatting statements into the interpreter, but I wasn't very focused. As soon as LYAH started talking about type classes, it started getting difficult (even though type classes SEEM REALLY COOL), and so I started skimming, and then the book started making less sense, so I started skimming even more, and pretty soon I was just scrolling down through the pages without even PRETENDING to read. What sense does THAT make as a learning strategy? Obviously it's the opposite: go slower when you don't understand! 
    
    But look. I want to stop indulging my anxieties about myself, about the tech industry, etc., etc., and just DO STUFF, and just BECOME ABSORBED in SOMETHING. I mean. for god's sake, the three hours I spent reading all the old tax filings of that stupid foundation that A. was applying for a scholarship from––I didn't even intend to, but somehow in the process of writing her a letter of recommendation, one thing led to another, and all of the sudden three hours had gone by and I was convinced that the foundation was a total sham and a perfect example of the failure of the charitable tax-exemption in the US––anyway, on an intellectual level, I know perfectly well that these things have activation energies. You need to make big, upfront, painful, intellectual investments before you can start to see the beauty (or to really be fluent). It's nonlinear. Etc., etc. Of course I KNOW all of this; I just wish that knowing it helped.

    ANYWAY. Haskell. I have a CONCRETE GOAL FOR TOMORROW MORNING. There's a list of [99 Haskell Problems](https://wiki.haskell.org/99_questions), which is a translation of an original version of the questions in Lisp, the idea being (loosely) to work you through Haskell by doing increasingly difficult problems, from "Find the last element of a list" (#1) to ... well, the 99th problem isn't particularly climactic, but you get the idea. Anyway, putting aside basically all bigger ideas, I am totally capable of working on the first ten problems (the only ones I've looked at––they're all about list processing).

    Also, for Christ's sake, Andrew: there are like at least a half-dozen people you talked to today who also want to learn Haskell! You're going to talk to them more, right? You're going to start that discussion group, right??

I should actually stop writing. I have a bunch of other things I want to say, and I took lots of notes on what I want to say, but my writing is clearly getting pretty incoherent, and I want to computer-escape by reading for an hour or so before going to bed. (And also enjoy the pu'erh ice cream that More later! Oh, and:

*Small and stupid goal, and a non-technical one, but whatever*: I want to make butter tea. Like, I want to actually have that be a thing I do this winter: sip thermoses of butter tea. I enjoyed it so much last night, and it seems like such a good winter drink––the butter really gives it volume. (And I'm always trying to increase the fat in my diet, since that usually makes me feel less bloated.) Then, this morning, I was chatting with one of my cohortmates, who's Russian, and just arrived in the US for the first time four days ago. He grew up in Novosibirsk (!) and spent six years, starting at age ten, living in some small city in rural Mongolia, whose raison d'etre was a Russian-operated copper/molybdenum mine. Anyway, somehow Mongolian butter tea came up in this conversation. (As did the architectural similarity of the Village to St. Petersburg.) So, butter tea!

-----
[0] I suspect this is a really bad metaphor; my guess is that anyone who actually has the climbing skills to climb Half Dome is a lot less intimidated in this situation: it's work, sure, but it's not frightening work, because you've trained enough that it's instinctive. But the "bottom of the sheer cliff" imagery is the way I usually think about my math-related anxieties. For the sake of actually publishing a blog post tonight I probably can't attempt to be more precise!