---
published: true
title: rc day 4
layout: post
---
Today was chiasmatic: I started it with the same anxiety and sadness from yesterday, and ended it with glory, compilation, and whiskey! 

I failed in a pretty awful respect: I didn't ask anyone for help with Haskell. And I suffered accordingly: the morning was miserable and unproductive. My code won't compile, and I don't understand Haskell, and that must be because I'm stupid, because I've been incompetent at everything else in life, and I'm clearly destined for failure, unlike everyone else I know, and unlike everyone else around me at RC, who are productive and interesting and getting lots of things done.

The nice Haskell guy with the giant beard walked past me staring off into space with a smile. I didn't ask him for help. (There's SURELY some recent line from the Bros. K. that I can quote here.)

Finally, after hours of fighting with the stupid type system, and failing to understand why my attempt at building a `NestedList` custom data type wasn't working, I clicked on the solution to that problem (#7 in [99 Problems](https://wiki.haskell.org/99_questions/1_to_10)). I didn't even read the whole problem: just the first two lines told me what I was doing wrong. When I'm defining functions that operate on custom data types, you need to be specific about how they'll use each potential part of your custom data type! This actually makes total sense. Hooray!

I was ecstatic about my discovery–if not about how I came to discover it (pointless lonely agony followed by looking at a solution)–and I decided to take a brief celebratory walk to get coffee. The idea being that it's better to take breaks NOT when you've run out of ideas–but exactly WHEN you know what to do next. This is Hemingway's writing advice, or maybe Faulkner's, or something. That way you avoid sitting back down to a blank page and not knowing what to do, and not having all of your relevant thoughts readily available.

I bought coffee. A block away from Dunkin' Donuts, a huge FDNY ladder truck was parked next to a building, with the ladder rotating down. A crowd was gathered around. I saw the firefighters helping a disheveled-looking guy down. Had some homeless guy climbed up on top of the scaffolding? Why weren't there police or EMTs around? And why were they holding a fishing net? It looked like the disheveled guy was being allowed to just hop off the fire truck without being escorted. Then I saw what he was carrying: a hawk! The firefighters took down the FIRE LINE STAY BACK tape and the crowd gathered around. Everyone was taking pictures. 

[So I guess what happened was](http://abcnews.go.com/US/firefighter-rescues-injured-red-tailed-hawk-nyc-building/story?id=36152023) that this hawk had been just lying on someone's A/C unit for the past three days, and they had called the fire department. The disheveled guy was an off-duty firefighter who, in his free time, runs a wildlife rehabilitation center with his wife. He was describing how he just barely managed to get the hawk: it had been frightened when he approached, and tried to hop off, and he just managed to pin it against the building. It had a swollen foot, and some bloody injuries on its chest. But it looked otherwise OK, and he posed for photos with it and the firefighters.

I returned to the Recurse Center excited by the hawk, the coffee, and the imminent solution to the problem of flattening nested lists in Haskell. (Which, you know, isn't as easy as it would be in a normal language, because lists in Haskell have to have elements that are all of the same type. So having a list that contains both "stuff" and "other lists" isn't directly allowed.) 

Yet before I could even get back to the ArchaeoBook to type it up, I went to grab my notebook from one of the conference room, and happened on a conversation between O. and A. O. was confused by some code he had written on a whiteboard. He had figured out that a certain part of it drew a circle, but he wasn't sure WHY it drew a circle. "I'm just jumping in and you probably already discussed this," I said, "but isn't that more or less the parameterized equations for a circle? Like, `y=sin(something)`, `x=cos(something)`, and some sort of parameter?"

It turned out I was right. And it turned out that O. had been struggling by himself for several hours with the code. He's trying to learn WebGL, which is this amazing JavaScript API for drawing that directly uses your computer's graphics processing. Web stuff usually have like 20 intermediaries between the CPU and the HTML, which is fine for text or whatever, but if you're trying to render complex 3D graphics in a virtual machine running on a virtual machine running on another virtual machine, things get pretty slow. So WebGL cuts out all the middlemen! Access the power of your GPU directly from the browser!

Anyway, O. has been trying to learn WebGL the last few days by looking at (AMAZING) sites like [GLS Sandbox](http://glslsandbox.com/), which is an interactive portfolio/demo of WebGL, with all these cool animations/graphics and their accompanying code. So O. has been looking at the code and trying to reverse-engineer it. If I change this part of the code, how does the animation change? If I change that part, what happens? I love this as a philosophy: perturbation as a method of understanding. If we poke the world in this way, what happens? what does that tell us about the structure of the world? Sometimes the way you want to poke the world requires spending billions and billions of dollars building a massive particle accelerator. That's hard. But in basic code like this, it's so much easier: there's zero cost! Just poke, and see what happens. 

By the time O. and I started talking, he was really just hung up on the mathy parts of this one animation. I can't find it on GLSSandbox right now–the ArchaeoBook won't run WebGL, so I can't see it at all–but it was a pretty animation of ten circles rotating around each other. (It looked almost like really simple, animated Islamic art.) Compared to these actual CS people I'm a total doofus when it comes to math, but the math in this animation was just high school geometry. And so we had an exciting conversation or an hour as we tried to figure out how the code, and the math within, worked. A. joined us for parts of it, and had some really good insights. The whole thing felt like a problem session from college: just sitting around excitedly trying to figure out why something worked, or how something was true. The discharge of an intellectual capacitor, with people as the parallel plates. 

At one point I realized that one of the random constants that had been floating around–we all just assumed it was a meaningless scaling factor or something–sure seemed mighty familiar. `.62832`. Haven't I seen that inside trig functions before? It's not a radian, is it? No, a radian is like fifty seven-point-something degrees. Wait a second–`.28` is twice `.14`–`.62832` is `'pi/5`! OR, even more to the point, since there are TWO pi in every revolution of a circle, it's `2pi/10`. WHICH IS WHAT GIVES US THE TEN RINGS!!! I had my hypothesis in a flash. And then we tested it: what happens if we change `.628321` in the code to just `3.14159`? Sure enough: only two rings. 

Tonight at the RC the second-batch kids were doing (informal, self-organized, five-minute) presentations on stuff they've been working on or thinking about. Afterwards was game night. I really wanted to go to both (and was even MORE excited after my afternoon of success!), but E. is in town this weekend (from Greece!), and so I met up with him and M. for kimchi pancakes in Manhattan Koreatown. E. says he's probably going to get another fellowship and so is going to get to spend a SECOND year in Athens writing his dissertation!



Even though I hate board games (and even worse, there were VIDEO GAMES there) I wanted to go. 

some 

"You're telling me that I'm supposed to check whether `x>y`–well, how do I know that I can do thatjQuery111306282610835041851_1452145348764? What if it turns out that when you finally fill the variables in, `x` and `y` are my children, and by `x>y` you're asking whether I love `x` greater than `y`? Don't you realize the position you'd be potentially putting me in? You'd be forcing me to say that I loved one of my kids more than the other! So no, I won't tell you whether `x>y` unless you assure me that `x` and `y` are things I'm okay comparing (and that I'm comparing them in a way that I'm OK with). Like if `x` and `y` are numbers, and `>` is normal integer comparison. I'm OK with that. But you have to promise me that that's all you're asking for."

Here's one way to make an infinite list of all the odd squares: `filter odd (map (^2) [1..]`

Here's another: `[n^2 | n <- [1..], odd (n^2)]`

I guess I feel discouraged that I can't actually DO anything
success begets confidence; failure begets discouragement

the misery of staring at error messages. the code won't compile. why won't it compile? the error message is just a crumb. at least it's better than in math: you can't prove the theorem, but you're not even given a clue what you're doing wrong. you're in a vacuum. 

wanting to be around people who i want to be like

because i've had so few successes the last few years, i get really easily discouraged
and so there's a positive feedback loop (although "positive" is an ironic description in this case: it's a positive feedback loop of increasing negativity).

what's frustrating is that this feeling (positive feedback spiral of negativity) is very familiar to me. *but so is its opposite.* 

monotonic, not chiasmatic

having some activities that are psychologically taxing and some that are psychologically rewarding, and so being able to cross-subsidize

*Main> map ($ 5) (map (*) [1..10])
[5,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50]
*Main> map (* 5) [1..10]
[5,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50]

red tailed hawk
http://abcnews.go.com/US/firefighter-rescues-injured-red-tailed-hawk-nyc-building/story?id=36152023
when i came back, before getting a chance to actually finish writign problem #7
http://abc7ny.com/pets/firefighter-rescues-injured-red-tailed-hawk-in-manhattan/1150260/

wandering in
some random code on the whiteboard
high school geometry
recognize some stuff as the parametrized version of a circle
O. has ben trying to learn WebGL and spent the day trying to understand the code behind this one example on glssandbox, which consisted primarily of him changing parts of the code and seeing how the animaiton changed as a result
able to realize that one of the random constants was pi/5 ("gee, seeing .628somethingsomething in the argument of that cosine looks familiar...")
webgl
the GLSSandbox looks amazing, as a really cool exam
sadly i tried to open it on the ArchaeoBook, and it responded the same way the dinosaurs in a hypothetical real-world Jurassic Park would: by immediately dying once it was exposed to the 

webGL's
but its fundamental unit isn't the pixel: it's a "fragment", 

red tailed hawk

missing talks and drinks/snacks/game night
mixed, b/c i don't like games, but Do want the socializing oppurtunity! on the other hand, want to see E