---
published: true
title: Recurse Center, Day -3
layout: post
---
Or is it Day -2? I guess that depends on whether I think of my first day at the RC as being Day 0 or Day 1. Obviously the former is more CS-y, but my instinct is to stick with the vernacular convention and call it Day 1... and I guess I could give the post-hoc mathematical justification that the numbering is retrospective/trailing, i.e., what I label as "Day 1" covers the day starting from time `t = 0 days` to time `t = 1 day.`

*BLAH BLAH BLAH. ANYWAY*, in the Gregorian Calendar, today is Thursday, December 31st–just a few days before I start the Winter 2 batch at the Recurse Center! One of my goals for my time at RC is to keep a daily blog, for the completely selfish reason that I want to deliberately reflect on what I'm doing and learning there. If I force myself to write daily (to at least write *something*, regardless of whether I *feel* like doing so), and if I do so in a way that's semi-public, then maybe I'll be better at holding myself to at least *some* standard of accountability. (Not, in general, my strongest suit!)

Also I really like to write. Remember the time I got so into teaching calculus that I [accidentally wrote most of a textbook](http://www.andrusia.com/math)? So this is a fun excuse to force me to write. (And to FINISH what I start writing, which doesn't happen often enough!)

Also note that since I'm writing this primarily for MYSELF (selfish, selfish), this is probably going to be really rambly and overly detailed. I know my audience!

Okay! 

Here are a couple of things on my mind as I prepare for spending three months at the RC:
--------

1. *I need a place to live in New York.* This is kind of important. I've done basically nothing as far as searching goes (other than posting on the RC forums and signing up for [the Listings Project](https://www.listingsproject.com/). For some unknown reason finding housing has always given me huge amounts of anxiety, which in this case has (unhelpfully) sort of paralyzed me. Which I'm not trying to use as an excuse, but, well... 

    G. (an RC alumnus!) has repeatedly offered up his parents' house in Brooklyn as a place to stay until I find a longer-term place. Maybe I should take him up on that? I hate bothering people and I'm always terrified that I'm imposing as a houseguest. A. suggested I try to house-sit for someone (and gave me some website), and K. said  "Why don't you try that CouchSurfing website?", but I always think that these sorts of things have way more demand than supply. Who doesn't want free housing? And it's the SEARCH for housing that stresses me out. So I want to minimize my search costs. I don't really care about where I live–I have basically zero material needs beyond a roof, hot water, electricity, and temperatures consistently above 50 degrees.

    All of which is to say that I'm happy to spend money for housing. Well, I'm never HAPPY to spend money on anything, but I've grudgingly committed myself to doing so. I will find a place to live! I will pay money for it! I will enjoy it! My landlord will enjoy my money! It will be a successful business transaction that leaves all parties better off!

E. told me about how easy it was to find an apartment when he started grad school at NYU in 2010: he went down to New York for the weekend, stayed at a friend's place, looked at two apartments, liked the second one, went to a bank, got out $3K in cash (first, last, security), and poof! He had a one-bedroom studio apartment in Spanish Harlem. 

I lived by myself for the first nine months out of college. It sucked! I was so lonely! I came home from work and... THERE WAS NO ONE TO TALK TO. Thankfully, it's not only more fun to have roommates, it's cheaper!

Side note: "I thought about offering you my parents' [halfway fixed-up rental] place in Bed-Stuy," A. said, "but then I realized I'd probably be doing you a favor by NOT forcing you to interact with them." Much appreciated! 

2. *I need a computer.* I mean, I have a computer, but I need a laptop. For the last 5.5 years my only computer has been my beloved 24" iMac, which (to my amazement) still works fantastically (though I do want to bump the RAM up from 4GB to 8GB). In my ~25 years of using computers, I've never used a single machine this long (let alone without any frustration!). But the iMac is also completely non-portable. To some extent this is a feature (I really need to work to quench my technology addiction), but it can also be really inconvenient. Once I brought it to New York, and I carried it on the subway (in its original box) from Astoria to P.'s apartment in Morningside Heights. The next morning I did the reverse trip. As a one-time gimmick it was amusing, but as a regular occurrence, ARGH. For the RC I really need a laptop. 

I have a ~2007 MacBook that I use as a typewriter/email-checker when traveling, but it really can't do much more than that. (I found it in my parents' house, and successfully saved/resuscitated it from the pile of three decades of dead computers in the basement!) I can probably read and do some basic coding on it for a few days until I get a proper laptop, though. (I'm typing on it right now!) 

But giant JavaScripty webpages make it miserable. I guess would make it tough to Google code problems. I can't run Chrome at all, and Safari effectively can't display more than one or two tabs at a time. It only has a gigabyte of RAM, which seems to be the limiting factor. Maybe there's a super lightweight browser I can find that doesn't require hundreds of megabytes per tab? Does that exist? Or has that gone the way of the `<blink>` tag?)

I wonder if I can install the Haskell Platform onto that MacBook. I should try that tonight once I finish writing this. Oooh, I know what could be the subject of my Day -2 post!

Longer-term, I guess I need to shell out for a new MacBook. I should have taken care of this two weeks ago. Had I made it to the Cornell Store before they closed for winter break, I could have gotten Apple's education discount (which is usually several hundred $$$s). (It still exists, right?) I could still have my father make the purchase in order to get the discount, but maybe that would take a while. In middle school and high school I preferred to buy refurbished computers, because the economics were the same with buying used cars (half the price and 85% of the value!)(what up, beloved green first-generation-form-factor iMac!). Is that still the case? I haven't bought a refurbished computer since 2004. Maybe the depreciation/value efficient frontier is different for laptops because of batteries (they wear out, and in modern computers they're unreplaceable)?

Alternatively, what if I bought like a ThinkPad or something and installed Ubuntu on it? I have no particular desire to run Linux, and actually have something of a repulsion to the sys-admin'ing that running Linux might entail. Analogy: I don't want to spend my time thinking about fine-tuning my fuel-injection; I want to spend my time taking an awesome road-trip out west!

Hmm. Really I just need to make some sort of decision and run with it.


How am I going to spend my time at the Recurse Center?
-------

Housing and which particular computer I have are secondary. (So why did I list them first here? Maybe because they're foundational but not fundamental? Does that make sense?) ANYWAY. The IMPORTANT thing to think about is how to use my three months at the Recurse Center in the most productive way possible. Here are a couple of disjointed thoughts:

1. In my application, I said I wanted to work on two things:
 a. I w
  b. There's also this really cool emerging field of *applied topology*. Over the last few years, mathematicians have realized that the (BEAUTIFUL, PURE) field of topology actually has a lot of really useful concrete applications. Topology is (more or less) the study of shapes in the abstract, and since data is (more or less) just points in high-dimensional space, there are a lot of techniques from topology that 



computer!

I like coding. But my feelings about technology are... more mixed. Same with the tech industry: I know lots of people who work in it, but part of it makes me very uncomfortable. 

where to live!

Honestly, writing my own static site blog generator, and making it look pretty, is really appealing. Hmmm. On the one hand, that seems like too meta of a goal, and also not particularly challenging (I mean, how hard could it be?) [0]

TinyPress saves stuff in Markdown, and all the files are right there on my GitHub account, so it'd be easy to transfer it to something I create. Or, honestly, just writing my own page template would probably be enough. Re-writing all the backend stuff, like TinyPress's pretty web interface, seems a bit tedious. Hmm. I like this idea. 

[0] 

pooch smooch